Mage: The Ascension (Alternative)

Like most role playing games played
around a table, This game uses dice to
determine the whims of chance. Anytime
a character performs an action under
adverse conditions or when the outcome
is unclear, his player rolls dice to
see whether the task succeeds or
fails.

You just need two six sided dice to
play. I have changed this from the
original game, Mage: The Ascension from
rolling a ten sided dice. I did a
little math and it just made since.

For a success in this game, rolling a 7
or 11 with two 6 sided dice has the
odds of 2/9 which is 0.2222.

A success in Mage is made by rolling a
8, 9, or 10 on one 10 sided die, which
has the odds of 3/10 which is 0.3.

So, with a few other modifications the
game mechanics are basically the
same.


Traits


Characters possess a variety of traits,
describing their innate capabilities,
trained skills, and even how many
wounds they can suffer before dying.
Two types of trait are especially
important: Attributes and Skills. Each
of these traits is rated in dots (●),
ranging from 1 to 5, much like the
five-star system many critics use to
rate movies. For example, a character
might have a Dexterity Attribute of ●●●
(3 dots) and a Firearms Skill of ●● (2
dots).

Whenever your character performs an
action that calls for dice rolls, you
most often add the most appropriate
Attribute to the most appropriate
Skill. When your character shoots a
gun, you add his Dexterity to his
Firearms for a total number of dice
rolls.


Modifiers


Various conditions and circumstances
can greatly improve or hinder your
characters tasks, represented by
bonuses and/or penalties to your dice
rolls. On one hand, quality tools might
give him a bonus to repair a car. On
the other hand, a thunderstorm might
cause hazardous driving conditions,
levying a penalty on any driving rolls,
and a distant target is hard to hit
with a gun, represented by range
penalties.

For example, when shooting a target 30
yards away with his Glock 17 pistol,
your character suffers a -2 penalty.

The Storyteller determines whether or
not any circumstance imposes dice-roll
modifiers and how great those modifiers
are.


Dice Rolls


So, we can say that that the number of
times you get to roll the dice is
determined like so: Attribute + Skill +
modifiers (if any) In general, bonuses
are always added before penalties are
applied.


Rolling the Dice


Now that you know what to roll, lets
see how to read the results. Each roll
uses two dice, and a result of 7, or 11
is considered a success. You might have
more than one of these, in which case
you have multiple successes. The dice
don't just tell you whether your
character succeeds or fails it shows
you how well he does. If none of your
die rolls succeed, your roll fails.
Obviously, the more die rolls you have
the better your characters chances of
success, and the greater your odds of
gaining multiple successes.


Snake Eyes


If one of your rolls turn up snake
eyes, it cancels out one success. If
you roll snake eyes, and none of you
other rolls succeed it is a botch.


Second Tries


When a roll fails, you can try again
with a +1 difficulty modifier.


Combat


Combat Fighting is a series of die
rolls, until someone surrenders or is
rendered unable to fight. The rolls
determines whether or not your
character hits and how much damage he
inflicts on his target. The number of
dice rolls is determined as above, but
a knife is more deadly than a fist, and
a gun is more deadly than all. Each
success gained on your attack roll
represents a point of damage inflicted
against the targets Health trait. If
the target has no more Health left, he
is unconscious or dead (depending on
the type of damage done).

There are two types of damage: bashing
(caused by blunt weapons such as fists
or clubs; these wounds heal quickly),
lethal (caused by sharp weapons such as
knives and bullets; these wounds heal
slowly). There are a number of
complications involved in combat, such
as a targets Defense Rolls. (which are
subtracted from any attack successes
targeted against him), Roll to hit and
apply successes as damage minus any
successful defense rolls.


Example


Lets see how it looks in action. Your
character tries to shoot at a thug who
just killed his friend. Your characters
Dexterity is 3, his Firearms 2, and hes
using a Glock 9mm pistol. You therefore
get to roll the dice five times. The
thug is about 30 yards away which is a
-1 penalty. So, you are reduced to 4
dice rolls. But thats not all. Its
raining cats and dogs. The Storyteller
decides that there's an additional -1
penalty for poor visibility. That
leaves you just 3 dice rolls. If a roll
yields a 7 or 11 that is one success.
If the thug is hit. He suffers 1 points
of lethal damage to his Health for
every success. Lets say you make 2
successes. It hurts, but it might not
be enough to stop him. and he staggers
away. Your character needs to decide
whether to give chase and close the
distance, or try to fire again.


The number of times you roll for an
action is made up of an attribute added
to an ability. Each of these are given
a rating from 1 to five:


1) Poor

2) Average

3) Good

4) Exceptional

5) World Class


That dice pool is then modified by one
of these levels:

+1) Easy

+0) Routine

-1) Moderate

-2) Difficult

-3) Challenging

-4) Hard

-5) Exceptional


The number of successes you have is
also given a rating from one to five:


1) Marginal

2) Moderate

3) Good

4) Excellent

5) Phenomenal


Traits


The attributes your character has are
listed here, they are divided into 3
categories:


Physical:


Strength - Physical Power

Dexterity - Athleticism

Stamina - Toughness


Social:


Charisma - Charm

Manipulation - Persuasion

Appearance - Attractiveness


Mental:


Perception - Insight To Surroundings

Intelligence - Pure IQ

Wits - Intuition & Instincts


Abilities are also divided into 3
categories:


Talents:


Alertness - Attention to Your
Surroundings

Athletics - A Talent With Sports

Awareness - You Can Sense The Presence
of Magic

Brawl - Skill With Unarmed Combat

Dodge - Avoiding Physical Danger

Expression - The Art of Communication

Intimidation - Flexing Your Muscles

Leadership - You Are Respected

Streetwise - Youre a Part Of The
Underworld

Subterfuge - You Can Hide Your
Motives


Skills:


Crafts - Working With Your Hands

Drive - Handling The Road

Etiquette - Managing Social Situations

Firearms - Firing Guns

Meditation - Regenerates Magic

Melee - Hand To Hand Weapons

Performance - Specialized as music
etc.

Stealth - Hiding From Sight

Survival - Living In Difficult
Environments

Technology - Repairing And Working With
Machines


Knowledges:


Academics - Higher Education In A
Field

Computer - From Typing To Hacking

Cosmology - Knowledge Of The Spirit
World

Enigmas - Solving Puzzles Or Riddles

Investigation - Forensics Detective
Work

Law - Professional Practice In Law

Linguistics - Specializing In Other
Languages

Medicine - First Aid, & Surgery Etc.

Occult - Knowledge Of Magic Practices

Science - Engineering, Chemistry, &
Physics


There are also some other very
important traits:


Avatar - Your ability to store
quintessence

Arete - Your mastery of magick

Willpower - Can be used to force
success

Quintessence - The raw power of magic

Paradox - The backlash from magic into
insanity

Health - The amount of damage you can
take


Getting Started


Now that you know the basics of the
Storytelling System, you can proceed to
create your own characters. You’ll be
able to judge what sort of traits
you’ll need based on their titles
(they’re mostly self-explanatory), and
know that the more dots you have in a
trait the better your character will be
when accomplishing tasks with it.

Here is a quick overview of how to
begin the character creation process:


The 3 categories of attributes are
divided into 3 levels of points: 7/5/3

The 3 categories of abilities are also
divided into 3 levels of points:
13/9/5

You get 7 points to go into
Backgrounds.

You also get 6 dots that can go into
your Mage's magical knowledge called
Spheres. The catch is that none of them
can be higher than your level of
Arete.

Arete starts at 1 and can’t begin
higher than 3.

Willpower starts at 5 and can’t begin
higher than 7.


You also get 15 Freebie Points:

To increase an Attribute requires 5
freebie points.

To increase an Ability requires 2
freebie points.

To increase a Background requires 1
freebie point.

To increase Willpower requires 1
freebie point.

To increase Arete requires 4 freebie
points.

To increase a Sphere requires 7 freebie
points.

Prioritize the categories with 3 levels
of points.


Select Attributes (7/5/3)


Physical: Strength, Dexterity, Stamina

Social: Charisma, Manipulation,
Appearance

Mental: Perception, Intelligence,
Wits


Select Abilities (13/9/5)


Talents: Alertness, Athletics,
Awareness, Brawl, Dodge, Expression,
Intimidation, Leadership, Streetwise,
Subterfuge

Skills: Crafts, Drive, Etiquette,
Firearms, Meditation, Melee,
Performance, Stealth, Survival,
Technology

Knowledges: Academics, Computer,
Cosmology, Enigmas, Investigation, Law,
Linguistics, Medicine, Occult,
Science


Additionally, characters also have a
number of advantages called
Backgrounds.


Backgrounds (7):


Allies - Friends who help you

Arcane - You are unnoticed as a Mage

Avatar - The Strength of the soul

Contacts - Information sources

Destiny - A greater purpose

Dream - Visions from the unknown

Influence - Pull over the mortal world

Library - Access to metaphysical
knowledge

Node - A place of magical power

Resources - Extra Money

Wonder - A Magical talisman or device


We will now go over the combat system.
It is very simple.

Combat is broken down into three steps,
Initiative, Attack, and Resolution.


Stage one - Initiative


During initiative, both players roll
Dexterity + Wits. Whoever has more
successes gets to go first.

Each player declares either to attack
or defend.

It is also possible to ambush someone
with: Dexterity + Stealth vs Perception
+ Alertness


Stage two - Attack


The attacker rolls one of these:

Unarmed Combat: Strength + Brawl

Armed Combat: Strength + Weaponry

Firearms: Dexterity + Firearms

Throwing Objects: Dexterity +
Athletics

Then the defender either takes the hit,
or if they chose to defend they roll:

Block: Dexterity + Brawl

Dodge: Dexterity + Dodge

Parry: Dexterity + Melee

The successes of the attack roll minus
the defense roll equals damage, which
is either Bashing or Lethal.

If a weapon is being used the
storyteller can increase the modifier
for an attack by up to +5. Some guns
allow you to shoot multiple times in a
turn.


Stage three - Resolution


Roll as many times as your Stamina
points to eliminate a point of bashing
damage for each success.

If the fighting continues you roll
again for initiative.

Keep track of the damage to your health
with this chart:


Health


1) Bruised -0

2) Hurt -1

3) Injured -2

4) Wounded -3

5) Mauled -4

6) Crippled -5

7) Unconscious


Each point of damage is marked with a /
for bashing damage and an X for lethal
damage. If you acquire 7 bashing damage
you are unconscious, further bashing
damage can become lethal damage. Either
way, you apply a penalty to everything
you roll as the damage goes up.If you
acquire more than 7 in lethal damage,
you can die.


Finally, your character needs to learn
magic!


Overview


There are 12 Spheres in this system
that are divided into coincidental &
vulgar magic. The first three levels of
each sphere are limited to coincidental
effects, and the highest levels of the
sphere are divided into two levels of
more advanced magic.

The Twelve Spheres in alphabetical
order are:


Control, Destruction, Feeling,
Influence, Penetration, Production,
Revelation, Restoration,
Transformation, Travel, Understanding,
and Vanishing


These are the degrees of power for the
Spheres:


1) Awareness

2) Sympathetic

3) Coincidental

4) Manipulative

5) Miraculous

-


1) Awareness

Allows the Mage to sense things with
their magic.


2) Sympathetic


The Mage can effect things they’re
personally connected to.


3) Coincidental


The Mage can work magic as long as it
doesn’t defy physics.


4) Manipulative


The Mage can manipulate and bend the
laws of physics.


5) Miraculous

The Mage can now create impossible
miracles.


Mechanics


Casting Magic


You can only cast magic up to the level
of your sphere. Arete is the number of
dice to roll when casting a spell. No
Sphere can be higher than your level of
Arete. You can also only spend up to
your level of Arete in quintessence on
a single spell. A mage can optionally
roll fewer dice to avoid a potential
botch.


Avatar


A Mage’s Avatar is the maximum
Quintessence they can store.


Quintessence


Quintessence is the power source for
Magic. Spending Quintessence reduces
the difficulty of a spell, up to a
modifier of -3. Meditation is required
to regain Quintessence for at least an
hour at a place of power. Quintessence
can also be stored in things that are
carried by a Mage.


Willpower


One point of willpower generates 1
success

Willpower can resist mind magic

Willpower can fight Quiet

Willpower can ignore penalties from
fear & damage

Willpower can be regained after role
play


Difficulty


The difficulty is the level of the
sphere you are using. Add +3 difficulty
for coincidental magic, and +4 for
Vulgar magic, if there are no
witnesses. +1 if a Sleeper witnesses
it.


Successes


Simple magic requires only one success,
two successes are required for more
powerful magic, and larger effects can
take even more. If your level of Arete
is at least one point higher than the
level of the Sphere you are using, you
can succeed without a dice roll.


Botches


If a Mage rolls a failure when casting
a spell & they also roll snake eyes on
any of their dice then they botch. This
is a dangerous situation.


Spheres


Understanding

Power: Wisdom / ESP

Knowledge: Realization - Unveiling the
inner knowledge within.

Description: The Power of Understanding
manifests as inspiration and insight,
granting effortless access to answers
and discoveries beyond conventional
understanding. It endows the
practitioner with the gift of
foreknowledge. The key to unlocking
this power lies in the realization that
all knowledge already resides within
oneself.


1) Elevated Mental Attributes

2) Predicting Outcomes

3) Seeing the Past

4) Seeing the Future

5) Stopping Time


Feeling

Power: Empathy / Telepathy

Knowledge: Association - Recognizing
the interconnectedness of all things.

Description: The Power of Feeling
enables one to empathize and understand
others deeply, perceiving their
thoughts and emotions without the need
for words. It stems from the profound
insight into Association, the intrinsic
link that binds all living beings
together.


1) Reading Mindstates

2) Bonus to Social Attributes

3) Mental Shield

4) Reading Thoughts

5) Mental Link


Production

Power: Attraction / Creation

Knowledge: Synchronicity - Uniting the
threads of existence.

Description: The Power of Production
empowers a wizard to draw situations
and desires into their reality. This
ability stems from a profound
understanding of Synchronicity, the
cosmic principle that everything is
interconnected and influences each
other. It acknowledges that the power
to attract lies within, awaiting
manifestation.


1) Sensing Opportunity

2) Arranging situations

3) Attracting Wealth

4) Produce Small Objects

5) Win Lotteries & Elections


Influence

Power: Charisma / Hypnotism

Knowledge: Possession - Will shaping
the realm of the mind.

Description: The Power of Influence
grants a wizard the power to captivate
others. Known as Possession, it allows
one to enchant and charm, eliciting
positive perceptions or even gaining
control over anothers thoughts and
actions. The essence of this mastery
lies in the understanding that ones
will can wield dominion over the minds
of others.


1) Sensing Willpower

2) Social Influence

3) Hypnotic Suggestion

4) Mind Control

5) Altering Identities


Penetration

Power: Escape / Intangibility

Knowledge: Spiritualism - Perceiving
the world as a realm of spirit.

Description: The Power of Penetration
delves into the realm of Spiritualism.
It unveils the truth that the world is
fundamentally composed of spirit,
allowing a wizard to transcend physical
boundaries and become intangible.
Chains and locks lose their hold,
dissolving effortlessly under the
wizards touch.


1) Find Exits

2) Open Locks

3) Escape From Restraints

4) Escape From Prisons

5) Becoming Intangible


Control

Power: Energy / Telekinesis

Knowledge: Evocation - Harnessing the
forces of the spiritual realm.

Description: The Power of Control
enables a wizard to command powerful
forces. Through evocation, the
practitioner can manipulate energy and
bend it to their will. This
understanding arises from recognizing
that spiritual entities are themselves
embodiments of force and possess the
capacity to shape and impact the
physical world.


1) Quick Reactions

2) Bonus to Physical Abilities

3) Influencing Physical Outcomes

4) Moving Objects

5) Controlling Natural Forces


Restoration

Power: Renewal / Healing

Knowledge: Forgiveness - Liberating
from suffering caused by
transgressions.

Description: The Power of Restoration
holds the gift of healing. It grants
the ability to alleviate pain, cure
diseases, and bring renewal to the
afflicted. This power emerges from the
understanding of Forgiveness,
recognizing that suffering often stems
from transgressions. By embracing
forgiveness, a wizard becomes a conduit
for healing and restoration.


1) Sense illness

2) Relieve Pain

3) Protection from Disease

4) Heal Sickness / Damage

5) Resurrection


Vanishing

Power: Stealth / Invisibility

Knowledge: Misdirection - Manipulating
attention and perception.

Description: The Power of Vanishing
encompasses the art of Misdirection. It
allows a wizard to control focus and
attention, rendering themselves unseen
and secrets concealed. Meticulous study
and practice grant the ability to
achieve complete invisibility as the
wizard manipulates perception and
directs attention elsewhere.


1) Safeguard Secrets

2) See in The Dark

3) Stealth

4) Disguise

5) Invisibility


Travel

Power: Direction / Teleportation

Knowledge: Unity - Dissolving the
illusion of separation.

Description: The Power of Travel
operates on the understanding that all
separation is illusory. By harnessing
this power, a wizard can navigate
without traditional directions and
locate objects or places that are lost
or hidden. A skilled practitioner can
transcend distance, stepping from one
location to any desired destination.


1) Locate Lost Objects

2) Find Directions

3) See at a Distance

4) Teleport Objects

5) Make a Portal


Transformation

Power: Developing / Shapeshifting

Knowledge: Personification - Authoring
ones own identity.

Description: The Power of
Transformation allows a wizard to
assume the form and essence of another
being, whether it be an abstract
concept, an animal, or even a deity.
The essence of this mastery lies in the
understanding that one has the power to
create and define their own identity,
refusing to be shaped by external
forces. The power of transformation can
also be used to improve who you already
are.


1) Sense Others Attributes

2) Bonus to Attributes

3) Developing Attributes

4) Shapeshifting

5) Transmutation


Destruction

Power: Curses / Annihilation

Knowledge: Pragmatism - Dissolving the
constructs of right and wrong.

Description: The Power of Destruction
holds immense power that should be
wielded with caution. It encompasses
the ability to curse, annihilate, and
disrupt the natural order. However, the
utilization of this power draws one
away from their true path and blurs the
distinction between right and wrong.


1) Sense Black Magic

2) Protection from Curses

3) Curse Enemies

4) Cause Physical Damage

5) Kill & Destroy


Revelation

Power: Visions / Rapture

Knowledge: Above as Below - The
symbiotic connection between gods,
angels, and humanity.

Description: The Power of Revelation
unveils profound visions and grants
enlightenment to the practitioner. It
is rooted in the understanding of the
symbiotic connection between gods,
angels, and humanity. By tapping into
this power, a wizard gains access to
celestial knowledge, perceiving the
intricate tapestry that binds all
realms and entities together.


1) Sense Spirits

2) Speak with Spirits

3) Banish Spirits

4) Summon Spirits

5) Spirit Travel


Paradox & Quiet


The official rules say Paradox is
caused by Vulgar magic. In these
alternative rules Paradox happens when
a Mage fails at casting their spells.
When a Mage fails a magic roll they
gain a Paradox point. A botched roll
will then releases that Paradox in the
form of a Quiet (Insanity).

If a Mage has a Paradox level of 1-3,
the Quiet happens in one of three
ways:

Hallucinations, Fixations, or
Depression

If they have a Paradox level of 4-6,
the Quiet happens in three more ways:

Delusions & Mood Swings, Reoccurring
Behavior Patterns, or Anti-Social
Behavior

If they have a Paradox level of 7-10,
the Quiet happens as:

Wild Hallucinations, Obsession, or Self
Harm

If they have a Paradox level of 11+,
the Quiet happens in more severe ways:

Complete Madness, Living Repetitive
Loops, or Becoming a Serial Killer

Quintessence can be spent to reduce
Paradox, but it has to be done before
the Insanity of Quiet occurs. If
Paradox reaches a level greater than 10
it is released automatically.


Occult


This system of magic can connect to
occult themes, for interesting role
playing.

There are 12 Spheres in this system.
Each Sphere connects to one of the 12
signs of the Zodiac. And each Zodiac
sign connects to one of 10 planets in
Astrology. The 10 planets and 12 signs
connect with the 22 Major Arcana of the
Tarot.


Control:

Energy / Telekinesis

(Aries / Emperor) + (Mars / Tower)


Transformation:

Developing / Shapeshifting

(Taurus / Hierophant) + (Venus /
Empress)


Understanding:

Wisdom / ESP

(Libra / Justice) + (Venus / Empress)


Revelation:

Visions / Rapture

(Pisces / High Priestess) + (Neptune /
Hanged Man)


Feeling:

Empathy / Telepathy

(Virgo / Hermit) + (Mercury /
Magician)


Influence:

Charisma / Hypnotism

(Leo / Strength) + (Sun / Sun)


Penetration:

Escape / Intangibility

(Gemini / Lovers) + (Mercury /
Magician)


Travel:

Direction / Teleportation

(Sagittarius / Temperance) + (Jupiter /
Wheel of Fortune)


Production:

Attraction / Creation

(Capricorn / Devil) + (Saturn /
World)


Restoration:

Renewal / Healing

(Aquarius / Star) + (Uranus / Fool)


Vanishing:

Stealth / Invisibility

(Cancer / Chariot) + (Moon / Moon)


Destruction:

Curses / Annihilation

(Scorpio / Death) + (Pluto /
Judgement)


Finishing Touches

Here are some finishing touches to add
to your character sheet.


Traditions


There are 9 Traditions representing the
different kinds of Mages and their
world views. You can pick whichever one
you feel resonates with your
character:


Akashic Brotherhood - Buddhist
Warriors

Celestial Chorus - Gnostic Priests

Cult of Ecstasy - Hippies and New
Agers

Dreamspeakers - Shamans

Euthanatos - Terrorists and Activists

Order of Hermes - Ceremonial Magicians

Sons of Ether - Rebel Scientists

Verbena - Wiccans

Virtual Adepts - Reality Hackers

Hollow Ones - Goths


If you have your own Coven you can also
list it as your Cabal.


Concept


All characters need to have a concept
which can be anything you want to make
up. However here are some example
concepts that you might like to use:


Criminal

Drifter

Entertainer

Intellectual

Investigator

Kid

Night-lifer

Outsider

Politician

Professional

Reporter

Socialite

Soldier

Worker


Nature and Demeanor


There are two more important categories
at the top of the character sheet,
called Nature & Demeanor. Nature is
your inner character. and Demeanor is
what you project into the outside
world. Below you can pick one of these
for each:


Architect - Purpose / Obsession

You desire to leave a mark on the
world.


Autocrat - Leadership / Dictatorship

You want control.


Bon Vivant - Love of Life / Hedonism

You want to live Life.


Bravo - Strength / Anger

You want power.


Caregiver - Compassion / Smothering

You look out for others.


Celebrant - Passion / Intemperance

You have a calling


Child - Innocence / Immaturity

You never grew up.


Competitor - Striving /
Competitiveness

Life is a challenge to be won.


Conformist - Cooperation / Low-Self
Esteem

You are a follower.


Conniver - Clever / Envy

You are a manipulator


Curmudgeon - Critical Eye / Lack of
Imagination

You find the faults in others.


Deviant - Shatter Boundaries /
Perversion

You are an outcast.


Director - Organization / Lack of
Tolerance

You want things under control.


Fanatic - Dedication / Stubbornness

You live for a cause.


Gallant - Artistry / Flamboyance

You want to be the center of
attention.


Judge - Justice / Lack of Vision

You want to resolve problems.


Loner - Self-Reliance / Lack of
Empathy

You work best by yourself.


Martyr - Sacrifice / Self-Deprecation

You devote yourself to helping
others.


Masochist - Devotion /
Self-Destructiveness

You want to suffer.


Monster - Mirror of Villainy /
Depravity

You are an evil person.


Pedagogue - Knowledge / Logorrhea

You are a teacher.


Penitent - Responsibility / Contrition

You are consumed with guilt.


Perfectionist - Exactitude /
Incompleteness

You need to be the best.


Rebel - Individuality / Lack of
Direction

You like to break the rules.


Rogue - Valor / Selfishness

You look out for yourself.


Survivor - Perseverance / Lack of
Trust

You keep going no matter what.


Thrill-Seeker - Daring / Recklessness

You live on the edge.


Traditionalist - Consistency /
Complacency

You support the status quo.


Trickster - Empathy / Hypocrisy

Your life is a comedy.


Visionary - Imagination / Pride

You want to remake the future.


Essence


Your character's Avatar Essence is also
on the character sheet. An Avatar
represents a Mage's soul, and the
essence represents the drive a mage has
at their core. There are four essences
you can pick from:


Dynamic - Change

Pattern - Improvement

Primordial - Stability

Questing - Purpose


Resonance


All Mages also have a Resonance. As a
Mage uses magic their Resonance
changes. Other Awakened can read a
Mage's Resonance as well. You start
with one dot in one Resonance trait,
and add dots as you continue working
magic.

There are three types of Resonance:
Dynamic, Entropic, and Static

Dynamic represents change. Entropic
represents destruction. And Static
represents protection.


Purpose


In these alternate rules we also have
another trait called Purpose. You can
fill in the dots anyway you like into
these 3 categories:

Self, Others, and World.

Representing your primary motivation.


Foci


Mages tend to have certain tools for
using magic. When a Mage has access to
these tools, The difficulty for casting
magic is reduced. You can pick at least
one at the start of the game. Here is a
list of suggestions for you to choose
from:


Art

Blood

Books

Bones

Cauldrons

Chalices

Chanting

Circles

Computers

Crystals

Dancing

Devices

Martial Arts

Drugs

Elements

Feathers

Fire

Formulas

Herbs

Holy Symbols

Incense

Language

Music

Internet

Ordeals

Pure Water

Purification

Ritual Sacrifice

Runes

Science

Sex

Songs

Tarot Cards

Ouija boards

Tattoos

Piercings

Toys

Wands

Weapons


Examples


Also, here are some examples of how to
attempt other actions using the
abilities and attributes already
mentioned:


Climbing - Dexterity + Athletics

Driving - Dexterity + Drive

Encumbrance - Strength

Intrusion - Dexterity or Intelligence +
Technology

Jumping - Strength or Strength +
Athletics

Lifting / Breaking - Strength or
Willpower

Pursuit - Dexterity + Athletics /
Drive

Shadowing - Dexterity + Stealth

Sleight of Hand - Dexterity + Stealth

Sneaking - Dexterity + Stealth

Stealing - Dexterity + Stealth,
Perception + Streetwise

Swimming - Stamina + Athletics

Throwing - Dexterity + Athletics

Fast Talk - Manipulation + Subterfuge

Fitting In - Charisma + Expression

Impersonation - Charisma + Expression
or Manipulation + Subterfuge

Interrogation - Manipulation +
Intimidation or Charisma +
Intimidation

Oration - Charisma + Leadership

Performance - Charisma + Performance

Academic Knowledge - Intelligence +
Academics

Building Devices - Intelligence +
Technology

Cryptography - Intelligence +
Linguistics or Intelligence + Computer

Detecting The Supernatural - Perception
+ Awareness

Foraging - Intelligence + Survival

Fortune Telling - Perception +
Awareness

Hacking - Intelligence / Wits +
Computer

Inventing - Intelligence + Science

Investigation - Perception +
Investigation

Meditation - Stamina / Intelligence +
Meditation

Repair - Dexterity + Technology

Research - Intelligence + Investigation
/ Computer

Surveillance - Perception + Alertness,
Dexterity + Stealth

Tracking - Perception + Survival 
